[![Build
Status](https://github.com/samiralajmovic/mani/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/samiralajmovic/mani/actions)
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release-pre/samiralajmovic/mani.svg)](https://github.com/samiralajmovic/mani/releases)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green)](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green)
[![Go Report
Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/samiralajmovic/mani)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/samiralajmovic/mani)

# mani

`mani` is a tool that helps you manage multiple repositories. It's helpful when
you are working with microservices or multi-project system and libraries and
want a central place for pulling all repositories and running commands over the
different projects. You specify projects and commands in a yaml config and then
run the commands over all or a subset of the projects.

## Features

- Clone multiple repositories in one command - Run commands over multiple
projects - Declarative configuration - Single CLI binary with auto-completion

## Install

`mani` is available on Linux and Mac.

- Binaries are available as tarballs in the
[release](https://github.com/samiralajmovic/mani/releases) page.  - Build from
source: 1.  Clone the repo 2.  Add the following command in your go.mod file
```text replace ( github.com/samiralajmovic/mani => MY_MANI_CLONED_GIT_REPO) ```
3.  Build and run the executable ```shell go build ```

### Auto-completion

#### Bash

Auto-complete requires
[bash-completion](https://github.com/scop/bash-completion#installation).

There's two ways to add `mani` auto-completion:

- Source the completion script in your `~/.bashrc` file:

  `echo 'source <(mani completion)' >>~/.bashrc`

or

- Add the completion script to the `/etc/bash_completion.d directory:`

  `mani completion >/etc/bash_completion.d/mani`

#### Zsh

Coming.

## Usage

Checkout the [example](/example) directory to see how it can be used. You can
also always run `mani help` to see available commands.

### Create a New Mani Repository

Run the following command inside a directory to initialize a mani repo:

```sh $ mani init ```

This will generate two files:

- `mani.yaml`: contains projects and custom commands. Any sub-directory that has
a `.git` inside it will be included (add flag `--auto-discovery=false` to turn
off this feature).  - `.gitignore`: includes the projects specified in
`mani.yaml` file.

It can be helpful to initialize the `mani` repository as a git repository, so
that your teammates can easily download the `mani` repository and run `mani
sync` to clone all repositories and get the same project setup as you.

### Add New Project to Mani Repository

Add another project to `mani.yaml` and run `mani sync` to pull the repository
and add it to the `.gitignore`.

### Run commands across multiple projects

```sh # Run arbitrary command mani exec 'ls -alh' --all-projects

# Specify projects using tags flag mani run list-files -t frontend

# SPecify project using project flag mani run list-files -p project-a ```

## Config Structure

The `mani.yaml` config is based on two concepts: __projects__ and __commands__.
__Projects__ are simply directories, which may be git repositories, in which
case they have an url attribute. __Commands__ are arbitrary shell commands that
you write and then run for selected __projects__.

```yaml projects: - name: example path: .

  - name: idetheme path: frontend/idetheme url:
https://github.com/samiralajmovic/idetheme tags: - frontend

commands: - name: multi command: | # multiline command echo "1st line" echo "2nd
line"

  - name: checkout args: branch: master # default value, override with: mani run
checkout -a branch=development command: git checkout $branch ```

## Roadmap

`mani` is under active development and some of the things I aim to add/fix is:

- [ ] Add completion for zsh - [ ] Add tests - [ ] Add package to
brew/snap/Ubuntu/Debian - [ ] Add Windows support - [ ] Add CRUD methods for
project to config via cli (user-input) - [ ] Add CRUD methods for command to
config via cli (user-input) - [ ] Add `--auto-discovery` flag to sync
sub-command - [ ] Add property for global variables, as well as global variables
that are sourced commands (like `date` command to return current date) - [ ]
Remove duplicate flag auto-completion (both and without = showing)
